HANSEL AND GRETEL
By Madeleine Francis

Once upon a time there was a family. The boy
was named Hansel. The girl was named Gretel.
The father was a farmer. The mother had died
long ago.

One day, the father married a new wife.

The new wife was the stepmother of Hansel
and Gretel.

Times were hard. For many months, there was
no rain. The crops did not grow. Without crops,
there was no food. There was not enough to eat.

Now, the family was hungry and poor.

One night, the father asked, “Wife, what will
we do? We do not have enough to eat.”

“Don’t worry,” the stepmother said. “I have a
plan. Tomorrow morning, we will take the kids
to the forest. We will go on a picnic.”

“A picnic!” the father said. “How will that help?”

“We will leave the kids in the forest,” said the
stepmother. “Then we will sneak away. The
kids will be lost. And we can have more food
at home.”

“That is a terrible idea. What kind of father
would do that to his children?” the father asked.

“A poor one,” the stepmother answered.

“I don’t like it, but I’ll do it,” the father said sadly.

Little did the parents know that Hansel and Gretel
had heard every word.

“Don’t worry, Gretel,” Hansel whispered. “I have
a plan.”

The very next day, Hansel got up early. He
collected lots of bright blue pebbles. He put them
in his pocket.

After breakfast, the stepmother said, “Let’s have
a picnic!” Then, the family went to the forest.

As the family walked into the forest, Hansel
dropped a bright blue pebble every few steps.

“Now, children,” the mean stepmother said,
“your father and I are going to collect some
berries. We’ll be right back.”

The father kissed both of his children. Then he
walked away with the stepmother. Gretel started
to cry.

“Do not cry!” Hansel said. “We will find our
way home. I dropped blue pebbles all along
the way.”

Hansel and Gretel followed the pebbles all the
way home.

A few hours later, Hansel and Gretel arrived
home. The stepmother looked angry. The father
looked happy.

“Thank goodness, you came home!” their father
said.

“It was silly of you to get lost,” said the
stepmother.

After Hansel and Gretel went to bed, the parents
had a talk.

“We have to try it again,” the stepmother said.
“I can’t,” said the father. “I love them.”

“We are doing it again. Tomorrow,” the
stepmother said. Her voice was firm. This time,
Hansel and Gretel did not overhear them.

The next morning, the family went to the forest.
The stepmother gave each of them a crust of
bread. Hansel broke the piece into bits. He left
the bits as he walked through the forest.

“Now, children,” the stepmother said, “your
father and I are going to get berries. We will be
right back.”

Of course, the parents did not come back.

“Do not worry,” Hansel toId Gretel. “We will
follow the bread crumbs home.”

But the bread crumbs had been eaten by birds.
They were long gone. Now Hansel and Gretel
were truly Iost.

Hansel and Gretel kept walking. They tried to
find a way home. Suddenly, they came upon a
gingerbread house. It was made of gingerbread
and candy.

The children ran to the house. They were so
hungry. They started eating.

An old woman came out. “Why, children! How
nice to see you.”

“We are lost,” Gretel explained.

“I can see that,” the old woman said. “Please
come inside and have a good meal. I will take
good care of you.”

Hansel and Gretel could not believe their luck.

As soon as they got into the house, the old
woman changed. She was a witch. She threw
Hansel into a cage. She made Gretel do all the
housework.

“I will eat Hansel when he is fat enough,” the old
woman said.

But Gretel tricked her. The old woman was
almost blind.

Every day, she checked to see it HanseI was tat
yet. “Let me touch your finger,” the old woman
said.

Gretel gave Hansel a chicken bone. The old
woman touched the chicken bone.

“I don’t understand it,” said the old woman.
“I keep feeding the boy. But he stays so thin.”

“Well, I have had enough of waiting,” the old
woman said. “Thin or not, I am going to eat him
right now. Gretel, turn on the stove.”

Gretel opened up the stove. She had to think
tast. “Can you help me?” Gretel asked the old
woman. “There is something at the back of the
stove.”

The old woman stuck her head in the oven.

“Where?” the old woman asked.

With all her might, Gretel shoved the old woman
into the oven.

Then she unlocked HanseI’s cage.
“Quick! Let’s go!” Gretel cried.

They ran outside. A swan spoke to them. “You two
Iook lost. I can take you home it you like. Hop on.”

So Hansel and Gretel hopped on. The swan carried
them home. When they got home, they found that
their stepmother had left. Only their father was
at home.

“Can you ever forgive me?” he asked them. “I looked
and looked for you. I know what I did was wrong.”

“We forgive you, Dad,” said Hansel and Gretel.

Soon the rains came again. The crops grew. There
was enough food. Hansel and Gretel lived happily
ever after.